Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from Hansel minutes dot gong
it's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number four
49. In this episode, Scott
talks with musician Samis, AKA
in ongo Lumumba. Kasongo about
balancing a music career and
a PhD. . Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
and on Skype right now.
I am talking with
who is a fourth year
PhD student at Cornell in
science and technology studies. How
are you? I'm doing wonderfully.
How are you? I'm thrilled
to talk to you right
now because you are a
double threat, triple threat, not
just a PhD student, but
also a very accomplished nerd
core musician. Yes. Thank you.
I haven't, I think formally
been called the triple threat
yet, but it's great to
hear. Yeah, you have a
lot of things going on
and we only have so
long to talk about it.
So let's start with the
PhD. Explain to me what
this specialization is. So it
is the field of science
and technology studies. And as
we chatted about a little
bit before, it's a little
bit obscure, but essentially it's
thinking about science and technology
in different kinds of ways.
So typically these subjects have
been looked at in sort
of a black box. We
take things for granted. We
assume science is represents sort
of an objective perspective, and
this field is about tearing
those ideas apart and thinking
about how we even come
to a place where we
have those assumptions around science
and technology. So my specific
area of research is sound
technologies and thinking about sort
of the black boxes that
exist there, The sound technology
itself is a pretty broad
area. I mean, there's how
our brains process at how
it's thought about as a
physical or an aspect of
physics. There's how computers think
about sound. What aspects of
it are you tearing down?
So I'm interested in thinking
about how we talk about
the idea of quality as
it relates to sound specifically
in my dissertation. What I'm
thinking about is how individuals
in particular studio contexts identify
and determine what counts as
good quality versus bad quality
and how that's actually very
complex. And there's not sort
of an easy way of
parsing out what that means
and that it has different
violences to different individuals. So
really knowledge formation around sort
of issues of determining how
sound is evaluated. So is
that the sense of quality
in that? You know, this
is a quality recording, or
I prefer the sound quality
of a vacuum tube receiver
versus a digital one. And
all of those kinds of
things. It's all, all of
the below were all of
the above. It. What I
have already kind of looked
at as it relates to
my dissertation has focused a
lot around sort of microphones
and how individuals the studios
will make determinations about, you
know, how a microphone produces
a better quality sound and
where those assumptions are coming
from. And a lot of
it has to do with
perceptions that are outside of
sort of actually what the
individual is hearing and more,
you know, what the, the
sort of weight of the
brand carries like, Oh, it's
that type of microphone. Therefore
it must produce this kind
of quality sound. And so
I'm thinking about how those
labels are attached to, you
know, particular kinds of microphones.
Interesting. On the other side,
not just microphones, but also
headphones there's. There was an
interesting blind study. I thought
just a few weeks ago
about people heard that it
was a beats microphone, and
then suddenly they felt like
it had better sound quality,
but when they did a
blind study, it was not
Exactly that that's exactly. I
think what I'm trying to
get at is that we
have these perceptions about what
counts and what, what you
know, becomes popular and what
is sort of the go
to where the black box
kind of Mike are kind
of headphones and why that
happens. Can those things can
sound quality, B B objectively
expressed. I mean, is there
a way of mathematically to
say, I don't care what
your brain says, that's simply
better. And if you think
it's better, you're still wrong
because the math backs me
up. I think, I mean,
there are algorithms, there are,
there's even a program. Now
I believe that you can
use to have your, if
you have a song, it
can be mastered by using
like an algorithm that doesn't
have to be, have any
type of like human intervention.
So I think in that
context, someone might say, yes,
this is objective, really a
better sounding, you know, piece
of music. But even that,
you know, the idea that
quote unquote lo-fi is, you
know, lower quality. I think
there are people who would
contest that. I think there
are people who really like
the sound of like cassettes.
I've been to some rap
shows where people only sell
their music via cassette or
only via vinyl, or only
via certain kinds of like
sound technologies. And that's because
they value whatever that sound
is. And it's not necessarily
always Hi-Fi. So I would
say that, no, there's not
really an objective way of
talking about sound quality. It
really does your, your background,
your ideas about certain things,
color, your understanding of what
counts as good and bad
quality. I was at a,
a conference just a couple
of days ago and unrelated
to the preparation for this
interview. I was thinking about
you because I saw an
album released that I thought
you would get a kick
out of a individual was
releasing his album, brand new
album of techno music, but
was only releasing it on
NES cartridges. Wow. That's pretty
incredible. That's like really niche.
Cause I thought cassettes were
crazy, but completely Legit. I
mean, he was selling full
on, you know, you know,
three D printed NES cartridges
and inside he had a
custom EEPROM that he had
set up, you put the
cartridge in and it gives
you kind of a, almost
like an eight bit Zune
music, kind of a layout
and lets you go forward
and backward throughout a, a,
an eight track EAP. And
it was done entirely through
the audio of the NES,
which he insisted was the
best way to experience his
music. That's absolutely incredible. And
exactly what I'm, I think
I'm trying to get at
and make sense of that.
We have these very different
ways of thinking about what
counts as like the best
medium and people are really
attached to those. I think
any generation and I'm, I'm
reaching the age where I'm
starting to have my, you
know, back in my day
type of conversations, but I
think people really do feel
very strongly about the medium
that they listened to as
a child or as a
teenager, it evokes something more
than just good quality, bad
quality. There's like a, a
sense that goes with it
of, of your time and
your surroundings. So one interesting
thing that surprised me at
this conference is I picked
up a thing called a
Retron five. It's a retro
arcade. It's kind of like
a snack emulator, but it's
hardware. Are you familiar with
this? No, I'm not at
all. Oh, you're going to
love this. So this is,
you know, I'm sure we've
all done emulators. We've seen
online emulators. They are in
a very legal gray area
and, and by gray, meaning
completely not great at all.
So a restaurant is a
physical of hardware that lets
us play NES or Sega
or Jay five, six, 10
different kinds of cartridges. So
I pick up this Retron
five and I'm starting to
learn about it and I
have to go home and
flash the firmware. But now
I'm actually playing my real,
you know, NES and sniffs
cartridges. So it's fantastic that
my sons love it, but
the sound isn't quite right.
There's a restaurant. Yeah. There's
a restaurant three, which is
the inexpensive $30 one and
the restaurant five, which has
five slots. That's why they
call it the five and
it's got 10 different it'll
play game, boy color. It'll
play all sorts of different
stuff. Here's the thing though.
It doesn't sound right. The
three doesn't sound right. The
five does sound right. So
I go online wondering if
there's just a fixed and
I find huge message boards
and threads filled with people
talking about how the sound
on the three doesn't feel.
Right. And they don't know
why you would love this.
And someone actually found a
way to hack it at
a capacitor and change the
flavor of the sound on
the, on this device so
that it felt the way
they wanted it to feel.
And everyone else was like,
Oh, give me the plans
for that chip. That is
beyond fascinating for a number
of reasons. But I think
what's, what's the most interesting
to me is it seems
like people couldn't quite put
their finger on what was
missing. Like when you heard
it or when you listened
to it, can you identify
what it was that was
just off, You know, that's
the thing, right? It's like,
there are people who could
be really excellent, New York times
food critics and they have
all the right adjectives that
are ready. And there are
the people who like their,
their Crutchfield audio magazine who
say that, you know, this
warmth that drops out at
the low end. I have
no idea what those words
are. The words are not
in my mouth. You know,
I'm sure they're in yours.
What's interesting, I think is
that even trained audio engineers,
I've actually been reading a
lot about this because I
recently took qualifying exams, but
on some of the same
material, but they also struggle
with what, how to talk
about sound. It's still, I
think something, even for people
who have like very refined
ears, have they have a
difficult time, not just kind
of quantifying, but really articulating
like what, what a sound
is or what the quality
about a sound is that
makes it that sound so
you're not alone. Yeah, absolutely.
I think that at some
point these individuals were just
pulling out the know, pulling
out the volt meter and
just saying, you know, this
is how it ought to
be. And maybe looking at
their civil scopes and they
they're, it's an art though.
And this is an interesting
thing. And why I wanted
to talk to you is
that I feel like what
you're doing is a PhD
that has a foot in
art and a foot in
science. Yes. I actually just
talked about that today. We
had a, a colloquium, a
speaker who was interested actually
in something very kind of
different. I'd never encountered this
before. Maybe you have, but
this whole I'm thinking about
plants as being able to,
I don't even know how
to describe it, but, but
plants having the same sort
of capacities as sort of
humans and animals to like
respond to environments and how
that's really being taken very
seriously by a lot of
scientists now and how artists
have also tried to think
about how we can incorporate
a more holistic idea of
what it means to be
a plant and how a
plant senses things. And so
I was curious about whether
there were tensions between scientists
and artists, because in some
of the research that I've
done or that I've, I've
come across, there have been
tensions where scientists feel like
art artists, having their field
be affiliated with art, takes
away some of the sort
of scientific legitimacy. But what
I'm really interested in is
I think walking this middle
line between thinking about art
and how people determine what
is good art and bad
art and how that is
mapped onto a scientific context
like objectively, what makes something
quote unquote, have good quality,
bad quality, sound good, sound
bad. Well, there's been a
lot of talk in the
scientific community about why have
we been siloing? So many
things, you know, everyone likes
to have their niche, so
they just draw a box
around it and they point
at it and they say,
that's this that's that's entomology.
And this is the study
of, and you can't add
anything else. Well, that's why
I'm an expert in this.
You can't your space. Doesn't
intersect, right? There's no intersectionality
at all. Yep. And there's,
I think within academia more
broadly, there's always this sort
of anxiety around labels because
they're, they're really important when
it comes to getting funding
for things like people want
to be able to identify
what your product is, what
are you talking about and
who does it affect? And,
and they want to have
a nice way of thinking
about it. And even in
terms of framing your department,
you have to have a
way to market it. Like,
what are you, what are
you trying to have kids
walk out of your program
with? And I think particularly
for a field like mine,
we have to really think
a lot about this because
science and technology studies is
not something that I think
high school students come into
college knowing even exists. And
so we have to do
a lot of work in
the way of like defining
what this field is and
why it's interesting and why
kids should be involved so
we can have majors. So
we can, you know, put
people on the job market.
So people will invest in
it and, and we'll get
funding and stuff like that.
But there is also this
unease with defining what your
field is or what your
niche is, because then, you
know, there's no wiggle room.
There was no elbow room
for trying to do things
that might fall outside of
that purview. Right. And the
labels and the institutions put
up over the last, you
know, 50 to a hundred
years really want you to
study and explore in this
way. And if you start
to take two pieces of
the world and tie a
string between them and say,
look, these are connected. And
they've always been connected. The
system is set up to
say no to actually they'd
never been connected and it's
unacceptable for you to do
this. Yeah. I feel like
in conversation that that is
something that I, at least
in my department and in,
in a lot of the
different, with a lot of
the different sort of social
science quote unquote and humanities,
PhD students I've talked with,
I think they are very
attuned to the different connections
between different fields, but it's
really hard in practice. Even
talking to some of my
like friends who have applied
for grants, when they try
to say, Hey, my work
is interdisciplinary. The people they're
writing to might be coming
from a sociology background or
an anthropology background, and they
don't want to see the
other stuff, they want to
see their field reflected. And
why does your thing matter
for their field? So it's,
it's tough. I think trying
to walk that middle line
between saying something definitive for
a specific audience, and then
making claims that lots of
different people can sort of,
that can be receptive to
it. It seems like academia
has a sense of coopertition.
I mean, you ultimately are
in competition for grant money.
Oh, completely. Yeah. It's and
it's, it's only gotten crazier,
which is part, I won't,
I won't say that when
I started doing music, it
was like, Oh, I gotta
have to have a side
project, or I have to
have some other thing that
I'm doing because I, you
know, in fact started doing
music before moving into the
PhD, but it is nice.
At least for me to
know that I have this
whole other skill set because
the job market for PhD
students is insane right now.
So it's like having a
side gig or a side
project is a really, really
good thing to have as
a student. I think right
now, I assume it would
keep you sane. It keeps
you saying, but I think
also gives you skills that
you might not pick up
in. Like there's, there's a
lot of stuff, a lot
of cool things that I'm
learning how to do that.
I would never have picked
up if I were just
sort of following the traditional
PhD student path. So you're
assigned project though, and this
is where I'm trying to
get my head around this.
It seems like pursuing a
PhD would be a full
time thing and having a
music career and going on
tour and recording music videos
and putting out a pretty
large at this point, a
pretty large body of work
is also a full time
job. How are you doing
two full time jobs? I
don't know. And I actually
recently I'm part of this
collective of basically nerd core
nerd core affiliated artists of
color who are just, you
know, trying to create a
sense of community and encourage
other people who are like
us and have similar concerns.
And so I wrote a
little article about that entitled,
like having infinite, not infinite
lives and essentially it's, it's
really, really difficult. It's not
at all easy. And I,
I often and feel sort
of paralyzed by the amount
of work that's required for
to maintain both of these
identities, but it, you know,
once I come down from
that and I'm like, okay,
I can't be paralyzed right
now. I find that I
just have to be really
strategic with time. So, you
know, when I have a
break, when I have like,
you know, fall break or
winter break, that's time to
do music. And you know,
other times it's time to
write a conference paper or,
you know, prepare something for
a class. So it just
means being very, very strategic
with my time. And you
wrote that article for the
NPC collective, and we'll put
a link to that in
the show notes that was
written just last month. And
you talked about the stress
of not just being a
PhD student and being a
rapper and a producer, but
also you were an RA
and a manager at the
student center. I mean, you've
got several jobs. Yes, it's
a lot. And actually I
was speaking to a prospective
student today. I took her
out to dinner and we
both agreed that when we're
busier, I think we're more
efficient and we get more
things done. Like my first
year I'm getting the PhD.
I didn't have quite as
much on my plate. And
I think I was kind
of lost at least for
the first semester. I didn't,
wasn't really working on music
all that much. I actually,
at that point was kind
of thinking that I wasn't
going to do music anymore.
And it wasn't until I
became sort of busier that
I was like, okay, wait,
let me kind of focus
my time and my energies
strategically. And I found that
I was much more productive,
so it's a lot and
it's exhausting, but it keeps
me motivated. So your, your
alternate career, your alternate, your
alter ego is, is Samis.
Who is Sam is for
people who may not know
that name immediately. So Sam
is, is one of the,
I don't want to say
the earliest, but one of
the very early female characters
and certainly protagonists for the
system, Nintendo the original Nintendo
console. And she's part of
the franchise entitled Metroid, which
you may have heard of.
And essentially, and in this
game, in the game that
I'm sort of drawing on
for this influence, she runs
around this planet in this
big armor suit. And you
don't know that it's a
woman until she's beaten the
game, sorry, spoiler alert. If
we're planning on playing it.
And then at the end,
it's revealed that gasp. She's
a woman. And I think
when people, you know, if
people play it now, it
seems very dated even terms
of graphics and the way
the game plays out. But
for me as a child,
seeing that it really, really
changed my perspective because it,
it forced me to question
why I had sort of
naturally assumed that this character
was a man. I, I
really was sort of struck
by that. I remember my
brothers being struck by that.
Well, so that's where the
character Sam misses and I
wanted to draw on her
subversion of, of gender roles
in my sort of ability
to produce beats that I
often receive pushback and questioning
about as it relates to
my gender. So Well. And
you, you touch on those
issues in some of your
music. A while. Again, I'll
put links to all of
this at the show notes.
And if you'll let me,
I'll put some of your
music as a backing track
at the end of the
chat here, but you talk
about it in some of
your songs. One of them
called a woman. I really,
really enjoyed your may Jemison
song, which is taken after
the name of the first
black female in space. Also
also a doctor who briefly
had a general practice and
one of my heroes and
your, your lyrics are really
dense. There's a lot going
on as with all good
rap and all good nerd
core, just when I've figured
out what the last line
means. You're already two lines
ahead and I'm having to
go back up on rap
genius to figure out, did
she say what I think
That's, that makes me so
happy. And that, that actually
makes it all worth it
because I'm not like a
particularly prolific person. It takes
me a long time to
put things together because I
want it to be perfect.
And I want there to
be layers. I want it
to be dense. I want
to make sure that each
song has a lot going
on. So I'm like perfecting
every single rhyme, every single
word. So it, it makes
me so happy to hear
that you feel like there
is some quality or some
depth there because it's really,
really intentional on my part.
You know, that's a really
good way to put it.
I mean, I don't know
if intentionality is a, is
a straight up compliment, but
it is certainly intended as
one, just with just within
that single song, Mae Jemison,
you've got references to
to fifth element. You've got
references to Michael Jackson. And then
within a single line, you
referenced both the mother brain
from, from Metroid and final
fantasy seven, all in one
line. That's a lot. I
mean, I mean, I'm not
saying it's a lot of
work to listen to your
music, but it is a
lot of work to appreciate
your music. Wow. Thank you.
So, Oh my gosh. I'm,
I'm getting emotional now because
I think about those moments
when I'm sitting on the
couch and like trying to
find the exact perfect way
to say what I'm saying.
And, and there's a lot
of insecurity that goes into
making music period and releasing
it. So you're sort of
after it's out there in
the universe, I think you
can never hear enough times
you succeeded or you did,
you did a good job,
or this person feels, you
know, that your, your work
is important or that it's
dense that there's something there.
I really do want to
have music that has substance
in like a, you know,
social conscious way, but also
in like a, I think
what you've been talking about
that there's just, there's layers.
There's something for people who
have really played games and
they can draw on those
references. And there's people who,
you know, haven't necessarily played
games, but they know Michael Jackson,
I know Mae Jemison, you
know, I'm so happy that,
you know, you've picked up
on all of that. Thank
you. Oh, I'm glad. I'm
glad. I think that when
people, people hear music and
they think, Oh, you know,
she's like me, you know,
I have the, I read
the same books. We watched
the same shows. We played
the same games. That's where
that emotional connection that happens
with music. I mean, a
good hook will get you
on the radio, but you
know, good lyrics will keep
you on the radio. Yes,
yes. And I firmly believe
that I'm really actually excited
about what's happening in hip
hop. I think for a
long time, there wasn't necessarily
a diversity of hip hop
in like mainstream, but I,
I do see that starting
to change. I do see
there being multiple different kinds
of rap that can exist
in a popular context. And
that's opening up the doors
for, I think like nerd
core music to grow. And
for that, that fan base
to exist in a more
prominent way, because there's people
who are talking about all
kinds of things in rap
music. And it's, I think
socially acceptable quote, unquote, to,
to talk about whatever you
want to talk about in
rap. Now, Do you think
that the name nerd core
that, that, that kind of
genre that sub sub genre
will, will be stifling at
some point? I think, I
think so. And I already,
I already have felt it
a little bit in terms
of people being confused with
how to market me, or
if they want to share
my music with a friend
or share my music with
like a blog or something
like that, there's always some
confusion about, well, what do
I say? How do I
categorize you? And I think
sometimes saying, Oh, she's nerd
core too, to other people
can mean, Oh, she just
talks about games, cartoons, and
comic books or whatever. And
then you're missing this whole
other layer. And, and I
think that that's limiting for
a lot of nerd core
artists. Yes. They draw on,
you know, specific tropes and
ideas, but ultimately all of
the music is really speaking
to, I think the whole
human experience because games and
cartoons and video games are
talking to the human experience.
So I think that label
is it's great because it
draws people to your music.
People automatically are like, Oh,
she's into this type of
stuff. I can relate to
that. But on the other
hand, I do think that
a huge swath of the
population has just turned off
from it because they're like,
I'm not a nerd. I'm
not a geek. That's not
for me. Yeah. It does
seem like every niche that
is not pop music is
itself limiting just by virtue
of how it is labeled.
And, you know, someone could
say, Oh yes, well, I
would definitely have Samis at
my nerd core, you know,
retro arcade event or at
my, maybe my, my company
in our company party. But,
you know, are we gonna
play her on Z 100?
Exactly. And there's, there's some
anxiety there with what to
do with me. And I
feel that sometimes even going
to shows and performing, like
I've been, I've been blessed
to be able to perform
at, you know, quote unquote
nerd and geek functions that
are very specific, but other,
other venues, you know, bars
open mic nights and things
like that. And I'm always
thinking about my set list
because there have been times
when I've performed songs and
been met with blank stares
because nobody knows what Metroid
is, you know? So it,
it's hard, I think, as
an artist, even in this
genre, because you find yourself
having to sometimes even produce
like two completely separate kinds
of music to a piece
to different audiences. Yeah. I
am not a musician, but
I, this will sound weird,
but I give a lot
of presentations and I am
effectively kind of known as
like standup comedy with PowerPoint.
So awesome. They're all kind
of like, you know, JavaScript
virtual machines kind of like
cloud computing type things, but
they, they are, they are
known to be, I'm known
to be very funny for
those people who think I'm
funny, but I have to
have localized versions. You know,
if I'm going to speak
in Sweden at a company,
I got to make sure
all the jokes are gonna
hit. You know, I could
see you like having the
explicit version in the clean
version and not just explicit
and clean, but like, this
is a bar in Nebraska
and this is downtown Chicago
and this is San Francisco
and a convention, same song,
three different lyrics. Yes. It's
really interesting that you mentioned
that. Cause I was having
a great conversation with a
friend recently about a sense
of humor and how, how
varied that is from place
to place and how some
things don't translate. I, I
love to chat with you
more about that. Actually your
experience, trying to like tailor
sense of humor or tailor
your presentations to reflect what's
funny somewhere and not somewhere
else. Cause I feel like
that would be really hard.
I'm pretty set in what
I think is funny. So
it might be difficult for
me to sort of adapt
to a different way of
thinking about what's funny and
what's not, but it's, it's
a similar thing with music
with the shows like, okay,
here I am in front
of four people who couldn't
care less, who Sam is,
is what am I going
to say to them? You
know? Yeah. There is a,
in all things, whether it
be art or music or
science, you have to kind
of fall back on what
is the universality of this
thing? What is it that,
you know, if you brought
up, if, you know, if
you're playing in Russia and
they don't know who may
Jemison is, is there a
may Jemison like archetype within
their space or is that
simply a song that will
never work for them because
they don't have that historical
context. Yeah. And I recently
performed at geek girl con
and the Doubleclicks they performed
right before me. And they
actually recently wrote up a
blog post about what it's
like to tour. And I
think they, they had some
really helpful advice there because
they said that they specifically
go places where they know
that they can have conversation
with the audience because that's
really important to their whole
shtick and what they're doing.
And so I think as
I'm growing in my craft,
one thing I'm going to
have to start doing is
being not necessarily more selective,
but thinking more about what
my performance style is best
suited for. And I do
think that it's best suited
for a space where I
can have conversation or take
a break and talk a
little bit to the audience
and sort of a more
personalized thing. I don't think
I could ever do like
an arena show or something
like that. It just wouldn't
work for what I do
because so much of it
requires explanation and, and conversation.
Yeah. And, and, and even
though you might have in
your mind that the success
looks like 2000 people in
an arena, a more satisfying
feeling might be a hundred
people in a very intimate
venue. Oh yeah. Completely. And
as I'm getting older, I
think my ideas of success
are changing very, very much
so I don't, there was
never a point in my
life where I think I
wanted to be like famous.
I think I always was
like, that's, that's a little
bit too much, but even
now I think what I
would want is essentially what
has already happened is for
people to hear some of
my stuff and be affected
by it. And so I
can't really ask for much
more. Yeah. I think that
when people say I want
to be famous, I think
they're really saying, I want
to be appreciated. And if
you already have that, then
you, maybe you already are
famous. Exactly. You know, what
you, that was brilliant. That
was really brilliant. That's exactly
what I think I was
was, was trying to get
it, that I feel, I
feel everything that I think
people who are aspiring for
fame wants to feel. And
I think eventually realize that
they don't feel because it's
a different, it's a different
kind of beast. Having people
have sort of an expectations
for you that you can't
necessarily fulfill because you've become
like a character and not
a real person to them.
Right. Right. In the, in
the context of, of being
online the way I've usually
thought about it. Like I
have a blog that's been
around for a long time
and I used to chase
page views. And I used
to think about it. Talk
about the page views and
page views. I realize it's
not about the page views.
It's about the comments. I
would much rather have 10
comments than a million page
views. Exactly. Exactly. Nothing is
sadder than a, than a
post with a million comp
with a million page views
and not a single person
commented. It's just like you
give a show 20,000 people
come and they all just
leave. There's no Encore. They're
like, that was it. Yeah.
That's, that's a really, I
like this, this conversation about
talking about your sort of
perspective on these things as
it relates to like internet
and your own work, because
it's, it's stuff that I
think about too, even going
to certain, you know, very
music blogs, they'll, nobody's leaving
comments, nobody's engaged, nobody's talking.
And so it's like, well,
what's the point of having
a million likes on Facebook
or, you know, 10,000 followers,
if nobody is engaging with
you. And I think a
lot of artists, companies, et
cetera, are running into a
brick wall because it, for
them, it's a numbers game
and it's really an engagement
thing. It is, it is.
And if you have a
music blog or a SoundCloud
track and no one's talking
about it, they're just listening
and leaving. Do they even
really exist? Yeah. You know,
there's, if a tree falls
in the forest, right. That's
exactly. I think, especially in
this age it really doesn't
exist. It really doesn't it
ceases to have existence because
people are not discussing talking,
sharing. It only has a
life if people kind of
endow it with that kind
of power. And that actually
goes back to what we
were talking about with how
I stay sane is I
realized I don't have to
post every single day and
I don't have to post
every single thing if I
put up things that are
interesting. And I talked to
people who talk to me
about the stuff, then that's
good enough. And I feel
like I have engaged with
people who appreciate the stuff
that I'm doing. And I
found that that's really rewarding
versus being stressed out and
feeling like, Oh my gosh,
I haven't made a post
today. Or I haven't updated
this in X amount of
days. I have to do
this. And then it's not
fun. Right? Yeah. No one
wants to be on a
treadmill like that. Well, we
appreciate you. And hopefully we'll
introduce you to some new,
new people who are listening
to us right now. Oh,
I'm so appreciative of this
period, just having this conversation.
Great. Well, this is great.
So you've got a new
single called crown and you
went to New York recently and
did a video shoot. And
I assume that video will
be out soon. Yes. So
I'm actually going back again
this next weekend to shoot
some final stuff because the
director, he's a perfectionist. He
actually approached me and was
like, Hey, I want to
do a video with you.
I think what you're doing
is interesting. And so I
just kind of went along
for the ride and it's
been phenomenal and really, really
well sort of produced and
well thought out. So hopefully
that'll be dropping soon. I
don't have an exact date,
but I'm going to continue
to kind of push that
and, and promote the other
stuff that I've been working
on with, on that same
project. Because I think people
are starting to like, I
don't know, I drops it
in may. And I feel
like recently people have been
like, Oh, this is kind
of cool. So I'm going
to be promoting it a
little bit more. I think,
Well, you know, what will
happen of course is you'll
become an overnight success in
just 10 short years. Exactly.
And just, just the short
timeframe of about 15 years,
I'm going to blow up
and, Well, this has been
just a joy to talk,
talking to you today. I'm
going to make sure we
add links to everything we
talked about, including the shots
from your video, shoot that
up on your Facebook and
people can check you out
at Sam's music.com. Thanks so
much.  AKA Samis, our
PhD nerd core musician. Thanks.
Bye. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.